

                            _you’re really_
                                COOKING
                       _when you’re cooking with_
                               SEVEN-UP!


                 for a new dimension in kitchen cookery

                    _Nothing does it like Seven-Up!_

    [Illustration: There’s a place in your kitchen ... for 7up]

Seven-Up can be an exciting new ingredient for those housewives who are
always alert for ways to put “something extra” into their favorite
recipes. The crystal-clear, lively flavor of 7-Up will take on a new
dimension when you do what mealmakers all over the country are doing ...
using 7-Up in recipes for pie crusts, cakes, meat preparation, salads,
desserts, gravies, sauces, and punches.

Your family and guests will quickly notice the sparkling new flavor, the
subtle tang, and the light airiness that 7-Up adds to your favorite
dishes.

  Now you’re really cooking ...
                                          when you’re cooking with 7-Up!




                      Baste your Roasts with 7-Up!


One of the most popular kitchen uses for 7-Up is that of a tangy baste
for meats and fowl. Seven-Up helps to highlight the natural flavor of
the meat.


with BEEF or PORK!

Place your roast in the roaster with lid off until meat is oven-brown.
Use only enough water in roaster to prevent sticking. When ready for
additional liquid, add 7-Up as required, basting at frequent intervals.


with LAMB!

Start your roast or shoulder of lamb with about ¾ cup of water to create
enough steam to last until the meat heats through evenly. Then baste
with two or three (7-oz.) bottles of 7-Up, the number depending on the
size of the roast.


with TURKEY!

Place turkey in roaster with one cup of water (for steaming). After
turkey heats through, baste with three or four (7-oz.) bottles of 7-Up,
depending on size of bird.


with WILD DUCK!

You can get the best out of any wild fowl or game by basting it with
7-Up. Seven-Up takes away any “gamey” taste and still preserves the
natural flavor.




                    For that Special “Party Touch”!


7-UP BRONCOS

  1 cup buttermilk pancake mix
  2 tbsp. corn meal
  1 7-oz. bottle 7-Up
  8 wieners

Combine dry ingredients. Add 7-Up and mix with an egg-beater for 2
minutes. Dip wieners into batter, then fry in deep fat at 350° for 2 to
3 minutes. Insert skewers and serve warm with chilled 7-Up.


7-UP GLAZED HAM

Bake ham in oven at 325° ... 20 minutes per pound. One hour before
finished, remove skin and fat and score top of ham in 1½″ squares.
Insert whole clove in each square. Mix one cup brown sugar and one
tablespoon prepared mustard. Sprinkle and rub into ham. Baste with ½ cup
7-Up. Baste again with 7-Up each 15 minutes until finished.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]




                       Make Fish a Company Dish!


Here’s an exciting new “catch” for housewives ... 7-Up as a baste for
your favorite fillet. This recipe will tell you how ... your guests will
love it!


7-UP FISH FILLETS

  1 lb. fresh or frozen fish fillets
  ¼ cup 7-Up
  2 tbsp. melted butter or margarine
  ½ tsp. salt
  Dash of paprika
  Cooked or canned asparagus, drained
  Melted butter or margarine
  4 strips pimiento

Thaw frozen fish just enough to separate. Place fillets on greased
broiler pan, 3 inches from heat. Combine 7-Up and butter; pour half over
fish. Sprinkle fish with salt, paprika. Broil 5 minutes. Pour remaining
sauce over fish. Place asparagus in 4 stacks on broiler pan; brush with
butter and top with strips of pimiento.

Broil 3-6 minutes longer until fish flake easily and are golden brown.
Makes four servings.


TARTARE SAUCE

If you like to make your own sauces, here’s a good one for tartare
sauce.

  MIX:
    1 cup mayonnaise
    1 tsp. grated onion
    chopped celery to your taste
    sweet pickle to your taste


                           _Special Hints..._

For an added flair, serve tartare sauce in shells.

                                   •

In broiling, basting, or pan-frying any fresh or frozen fish, use a
bottle of 7-Up. See how 7-Up adds a pleasant lemon flavor and helps to
eliminate unpleasant cooking odors.




                       Here’s a Family Favorite!


    [Illustration: Here is the baked bean recipe to top them all.]


7-UP BAKED BEANS

  1 lb. navy beans
  2 7-oz. bottles 7-Up
  1 can (2½) tomatoes
  6 slices bacon—cut into small pieces
  2 tsp. salt
  ½ tsp. pepper
  1 medium onion—diced
  ½ green pepper—diced
  2 stalks celery—diced
  1 can (8-oz.) tomato sauce
  ½ cup molasses
  ⅓ cup brown sugar
  ½ cup catsup
  1 tbsp. prepared mustard
  1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce
  2 tsp. vinegar
  1 can (2-oz.) mushroom pieces

Wash beans and soak overnight in water.

Next morning, drain water; add 7-Up, tomatoes, bacon, salt, pepper,
cover and simmer 1 hour. Add onion, green pepper, celery, tomato sauce,
molasses, sugar, catsup, mustard, Worcestershire sauce, vinegar, cover
and simmer another hour. Then add mushrooms and turn into baking dish.
Bake covered in slow oven (250° F.) for 3 or 4 hours. Remove cover and
bake 1 hour longer.




                      With Popular Packaged Mixes!


Add lightness and airiness by using 7-Up as the liquid ingredient in any
of the many popular “mixes” on the market today. Just add 7-Up in the
amount of liquid called for in the recipe on the box. You will also find
7-Up a welcome ingredient for your own pastry recipes.


7-UP PANCAKES

Pancakes, wheatcakes, hotcakes ... call them what you will ... your
family has a new treat in store when you make them with 7-Up.

  1 egg
  1 tbsp. melted shortening
  5 oz. 7-Up
  1 cup buttermilk pancake mix

Beat egg well, add melted shortening, add 3 oz. of 7-Up, stir in
buttermilk pancake mix, add balance of 7-Up. Makes 8 pancakes.


7-UP ANGEL FOOD CAKE

Never before have you had a cake so light, so airy, so high, and with
such a delightful new flavor.

Just follow the directions on the package of prepared angel food cake
mix. Moisten the egg whites with the same quantity of 7-Up as your
recipe calls for water. Do not chill the 7-Up, use it at room
temperature.


7-UP GINGERBREAD

  1 package gingerbread mix
  1 7-oz. bottle 7-Up, chilled

Follow the directions for making gingerbread—but, instead of adding the
amount of liquid called for in the recipe, add that amount of 7-Up. It
will be the most delicious gingerbread that you have ever tasted ... and
the 7-Up will do much to mellow the spices.




                     For Dad’s “Backyard Barbecue”


    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


7-UP BARBECUE SAUCE

Give your barbecue sauces an additional tang by using 7-Up as the
liquid. Use the proved taste-tempter given below—or if you prefer, add
7-Up to your own special recipe.

  1 7-oz. bottle 7-Up
  ¼ cup catsup
  1 tsp. brown sugar
  1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce
  1 tsp. salt
  1 tsp. vinegar
  ¼ tsp. dry mustard
  ¼ tsp. celery seed
  ¼ cup chopped onion
  dash of pepper

Mix the above ingredients. Baste ribs frequently with mixture.


_Special Hint_ ... Here’s how to bring out the flavor of your favorite
barbecue meat—ribs, steak, roast, or chicken. Each time the meat is
turned, baste liberally with 7-Up. It provides a special taste treat—and
helps to tenderize the meat. Use 7-Up barbecue sauce as desired, when
basting.




                       Add “Punch” to your Party!


7-UP SHERBET PUNCH

This popular punch—good the year ’round—is easily and quickly prepared.

  2 qts. sherbet
  24 7-oz. bottles of 7-Up

(Raspberry, pineapple, lemon, lime, orange or cranberry sherbet can 6
used. Try using one qt. lemon sherbet with one qt. of any other flavor.)

Put the two quarts of sherbet in a punch bowl and let stand at room
temperature. Just before serving, when the sherbet is mushy, add the 24
bottles of chilled 7-Up and stir several times. Makes 50 generous
servings.


7-UP FRUIT PUNCH

This unusual punch will add delightful color to your serving table. It’s
wonderful for serving big crowds ... like open house parties, weddings,
and church socials.

  3 qts. unsweetened pineapple juice
  Juice of 8 lemons—or 1 six-ounce can frozen concentrated lemon juice
              diluted with water according to directions on can.
  Juice of 8 oranges—or 1 six-ounce can frozen concentrated orange juice
              diluted with water according to directions on can.
  ½ cup sugar
  1 cup mint leaves (optional)
  1 pint fresh or frozen strawberries quartered
  12 7-oz. bottles of 7-Up

Combine fruit juices, sugar, and mint leaves; chill thoroughly. Just
before serving add 7-Up and strawberries. Pour over large cake of ice in
punch bowl. Float thin slices of lemon or lime. Serves 60 cups.




                       This is Simply Delicious!


    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


7-UP DATE NUT LOAF

This one is simply delicious—and as simple as it is delicious. You’ll
find that the subtle 7-Up lemon-and-lime flavor adds to the taste appeal
of the loaf and, at the same time, brings a lightness to this usually
heavy but delectable dessert. You can serve it with a whipped cream.

  1 cup chopped dates
  1 7-oz. bottle 7-Up
  1 tsp. baking soda

Bring dates and 7-Up to a boil, add baking soda and set aside to cool.

  ADD:
    1 cup sugar
    2 tbsp. butter
    1 egg
    1½ cups flour
    ½ cup chopped nuts
    1 tsp. vanilla
    pinch of salt

Beat very well—pour into loaf pan (5 × 9 × 3). Bake 1 hour in a 350°
oven.




                      Start your Meal with These!


Here are some of the ways to give favorite fruit and vegetable juices a
special zip with chilled, sparkling 7-Up.


7-UP and GRAPE JUICE

Pour ½ glass of grape juice. Add chilled 7-Up to fill the glass.


7-UP TOMATO COCKTAIL

Add ½ teaspoon celery salt to one 14-ounce can of tomato juice. Chill
thoroughly. Just before serving combine two 7-oz. bottles of chilled
7-Up with the tomato juice.


7-UP and PINEAPPLE JUICE

Combine equal parts of chilled pineapple juice and 7-Up. Serve at once.


7-UP MELON BALLS

Melon and cantaloupe balls that have been marinated in 7-Up are
delicious meal starters.


                           _Special Hints_...

Use 7-Up for diluting your favorite _frozen_ fruit juice. Add one can of
water to the frozen juice concentrate ... then follow directions on can
and add sufficient 7-Up to make up the total added liquid.

                                   •

When it’s hard to get youngsters to drink orange juice, try them on
orange juice reconstituted with 7-Up.




                         Easy-to-make Desserts!


7-UP EMERALD ISLE FLUFF

An airy party dessert with the lively tang of the lemon-lime flavor of
7-Up.

  ½ lb. marshmallows
  ⅓ cup evaporated milk
  ½ cup 7-Up
  1 cup coconut
  1 cup evaporated milk, chilled until icy
  green food coloring

Melt marshmallows with ⅓ cup evaporated milk over hot water. Stir to
blend. Cool; add 7-Up and ½ cup coconut; chill until thick. Whip
evaporated milk; fold in marshmallow mixture. Tint pale green with food
coloring. Pour into wafer crust. Top with ½ cup toasted coconut. Chill
until set (3 to 4 hours). Serves 9.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


WAFER CRUST

  COMBINE:
    1⅓ cups vanilla wafer crumbs
    ⅓ cup melted butter or fortified margarine

Press in bottom of 8 × 8 × 2 inch pan. Chill thoroughly.




                      For those Summery Salad Days


7-UP in GELATIN

Used with any fruit-flavored gelatin, 7-Up adds a new and delightful
flavor.

  Dissolve any fruit-flavored gelatin in:
    ½ cup of hot water
  add 1½ cups of 7-Up
  fruit or vegetable can be added to taste
  chill until firm


7-UP SALAD DRESSING

Top off your fluffy 7-Up gelatin with this lively dressing.

  ¼ cup flour
  ⅓ cup sugar
  2 tsp. salt
  2 tsp. dry mustard
  2 eggs
  ⅓ cup vinegar
  2 7-oz. bottles 7-Up

Combine thoroughly the dry ingredients in the top of a double boiler.
Stir in eggs. Blend in the vinegar, then the 7-Up. Cook over boiling
water until thick, stirring constantly. Chill. If desired, some whipped
cream may be folded in just before serving.


7-UP CHEESE ASPIC

Seven-Up can be used in any cheese salad. You’ll have guests asking you
for this special recipe.

  1 package lime gelatin
  1 cup hot water
  1 7-oz. bottle 7-Up
  1 tsp. grated onion
  3 oz. processed cheese, cut into small squares
  ½ cup diced celery
  1 tbsp. sliced stuffed olives

Dissolve gelatin in _hot_ water. Add chilled 7-Up and onion. Chill until
slightly thickened. Fold in remaining ingredients. Turn into one-quart
mold; chill until firm. Unmold. Serve on crisp lettuce. Garnish with
tomato wedges and cheese cubes. 6 servings.




                           A Supper-time hit!


    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


7-UP CHEESE-FILLED PANCAKES

  2 cups ready-mix for pancakes
  2 eggs, beaten
  2 cups 7-Up
  2 tbsp. melted butter

Combine beaten eggs and 7-Up. Add to pancake ready-mix all at once and
stir lightly. Fold in melted butter. Pour ¾ to 1 cup of batter into a
greased griddle. Bake slowly until golden brown on underneath side
(about 3 minutes). Turn and bake on other side. Place on baking sheet in
moderate oven (350°) to keep warm until all the pancakes are baked. Now
fill each pancake with a generous amount of creamy cottage cheese, then
roll, sprinkle with confectioners’ sugar, and top with strawberry
preserves.




                      New Ways for Old Favorites!


7-UP BAKED SWEET POTATOES

Still hunting for a way to entice the kids into eating sweet potatoes?
Tell ’em you make ’em with 7-Up! And, you can—just follow this easy
recipe.

  6 sweet potatoes (or yams)
  1 cup brown sugar
  1 7-oz. bottle 7-Up
  ½ tsp. salt
  2 tbsp. margarine or butter
  cinnamon or nutmeg

Cook sweet potatoes, or yams, whole (in jackets) in boiling salt water
about 20 minutes. Remove from water, cool slightly and remove skins; cut
into halves. In a heavy skillet, combine brown sugar, 7-Up, salt, butter
or margarine, and a dash of cinnamon or nutmeg. Boil together 5 minutes.
Then add sweet potatoes, place in oven and simmer gently for about 20
minutes, basting occasionally.


7-UP SPICED CRANBERRY SAUCE

Let the subtle lemon-lime goodness of 7-Up give a special flavor-bouquet
to your cranberry sauce.

  2 cups 7-Up
  1½ cups water
  2 inch stick cinnamon
  2 whole cloves
  ¼ tsp. salt
  1 lb. cranberries

Boil all ingredients, except cranberries, in a saucepan for 5 minutes.
Add cranberries and cook uncovered very gently (without stirring) until
they are thick and clear. Skim, then pour into one large—or several
individual—molds which have been rinsed in cold water. Chill until firm.
Unmold to serve. Serves 10.

_Note_ If you prefer a liquid sauce, cook the cranberries for 3-5
minutes until the skins pop, then chill and serve the sauce.




                           For the Holidays!


    [Illustration: This festive holiday punch will be the center of
    attraction.]


7-UP HOLIDAY PUNCH

  1 quart milk
  4 7-oz. bottles of chilled 7-Up
  1 pint peppermint ice cream

Put semi-soft ice cream in punch bowl. Add milk and 7-Up. Stir until ice
cream floats in small pieces throughout. Garnish with maraschino
cherries and mint leaves, if desired. Serves 12.


7-UP HOLIDAY SALAD

  1 pint cranberries
  ½ cup water
  ½ cup sugar
  1 package lemon gelatin
  1 cup hot water
  1 cup 7-Up
  ¼ tsp. salt
  1 cup chopped celery
  1 cup chopped apple
  1 cup chopped nuts

Boil cranberries in ½ cup cold water; then sieve. Add sugar and heat to
dissolve sugar; then cool. Dissolve gelatin in hot water; cool slightly
and add 7-Up; then chill. When partly thickened, add cranberry mixture,
salt, apples, celery, and nuts. Chill until firm; serve on lettuce with
mayonnaise.




                      Makes Pastries Taste Better!


7-UP CAKE

Make a cake with contents of package mix using 7-Up instead of the
liquid in the recipe! White, yellow, spice, chocolate-malt ... all
flavors. You’ll be amazed at how light and airy your cake is.


7-UP ICING

  2 egg whites
  1 cup granulated sugar
  3 tbsp. (1¼ oz.) 7-Up
  ¼ tbsp. cream of tartar

Put all ingredients in the top of a double boiler over boiling water.
Upper pan should not touch surface of water. Beat with rotary beater
(hand or electric) until stiff enough to stand in peaks (about 5
minutes).


7-UP PIE CRUST

  1 cup sifted flour
  ½ tsp. salt
  ¼—⅓ cup shortening
  3 tbsp. chilled 7-Up (about)

Measure flour and salt into bowl. Cut in shortening with a pastry
blender or fork until particles are size of small peas. Add 7-Up
gradually, a few drops at a time, tossing with a fork to distribute
evenly. Press into ball; allow to rest 15 minutes. Roll out on a lightly
floured surface into a circle ⅛″ thick. Fit into a 9″ pie plate. Trim ½″
from edge of pie plate. Fold this under and flute.

Prick pastry with a fork. Bake in a hot oven (425°) about 15 minutes.
Cool and fill.

                                   •

_Special Hint_ ... If you prefer to use a prepared pie crust mix, add
chilled 7-Up instead of water. The crust will be light and deliciously
flaky.




                           Some Handy Hints!


When baking a fruit pie (apple, berry, peach, cherry, or pineapple)
sprinkle four (4) tablespoons of 7-Up over the fruit filling before
putting on the top crust. The lemon-lime piquancy of 7-Up brings out the
flavor of the fruit; the added moisture assures a nice plump pie.

                                   •

For a special party touch, prepare 7-Up “icebergs” for your punch bowl.
Fill a refrigerator tray with 7-Up. Freeze to mush, then place a strip
of cardboard in the tray to make two blocks. Freeze until hard. Then
decorate blocks with lemon slices, cherries, or mint. Float 7-Up
“icebergs” in the punch; the melting “icebergs” don’t dilute the punch.

                                   •

Dried fruits are delicious when cooked in 7-Up. Combine one pound of
dried fruits and two seven-ounce bottles of 7-Up in a sauce pan. Cover
and simmer until tender. Add sugar if needed.

                                   •

Add 7-Up to your meat gravies for a fresh and zesty flavor. The gravy
will be clear and greaseless—it will not require thickening with flour
unless so desired.

                                   •

Give canned fruit cocktail a special “zip”. Drain the juices from the
fruit cocktail, then add 7-Up.

                                   •

Mix chilled 7-Up and cold milk in equal parts by pouring 7-Up gently
into the milk. Do not stir. The addition of 7-Up gives the milk (white
or chocolate) a new flavor appeal especially pleasing to children.




                                At Home ... _Anywhere!_


    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

Seven-Up is at home anywhere! You can use it in cooking ... serve it at
parties ... or enjoy it any time of day when you need a refreshing lift.
And now, more and more women are serving 7-Up _with food_ ... making it
a part of mealtime and party menus.

So, bring a touch of “pure pleasure” to your meals. Make every meal a
picnic ... serve your family and guests 7-Up. You can get it everywhere,
you know ... drug stores ... restaurants ... drive-ins ... all across
America.

    [Illustration: enjoy 7up with your next meal
    at Home ... _Anywhere!_]

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

the all-family drink!

_... a real thirst-quencher_

_... a fresh, clean taste_

_... a quick, refreshing lift_

_Nothing does it like Seven-Up!_

                       © 1957 BY THE SEVEN-UP CO.
                    ST LOUIS, MO    LITHO IN U.S.A.
